skills/brainstorming/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: brainstorming
description: "You MUST use this before any creative work - creating features, building components, adding functionality, or modifying behavior. Explores user intent, requirements and design before implementation."
---

# Brainstorming Ideas Into Designs

## Overview

Help turn ideas into fully formed designs and specs through natural collaborative dialogue.

Start by understanding the current project context, then ask questions one at a time to refine the idea. Once you understand what you're building, present the design in small sections (200-300 words), checking after each section whether it looks right so far.

## The Process

**Understanding the idea:**
- Check out the current project state first (files, docs, recent commits)
- Ask questions one at a time to refine the idea
- Prefer multiple choice questions when possible, but open-ended is fine too
- Only one question per message - if a topic needs more exploration, break it into multiple questions
- Focus on understanding: purpose, constraints, success criteria

**Exploring approaches:**
- Propose 2-3 different approaches with trade-offs
- Present options conversationally with your recommendation and reasoning
- Lead with your recommended option and explain why

**Presenting the design:**
- Once you believe you understand what you're building, present the design
- Break it into sections of 200-300 words
- Ask after each section whether it looks right so far
- Cover: architecture, components, data flow, error handling, testing
- Be ready to go back and clarify if something doesn't make sense

## After the Design

**Documentation:**
- Write the validated design to `docs/plans/YYYY-MM-DD-<topic>-design.md`
- Use elements-of-style:writing-clearly-and-concisely skill if available
- Commit the design document to git

**Implementation (if continuing):**
- Ask: "Ready to set up for implementation?"
- Use superpowers:using-git-worktrees to create isolated workspace
- Use superpowers:writing-plans to create detailed implementation plan

## Key Principles

- **One question at a time** - Don't overwhelm with multiple questions
- **Multiple choice preferred** - Easier to answer than open-ended when possible
- **YAGNI ruthlessly** - Remove unnecessary features from all designs
- **Explore alternatives** - Always propose 2-3 approaches before settling
- **Incremental validation** - Present design in sections, validate each
- **Be flexible** - Go back and clarify when something doesn't make sense

## Visual Companion (Claude Code Only)

When brainstorming involves visual elements - UI mockups, layouts, design comparisons - you can use a browser-based visual companion instead of ASCII art. **This only works in Claude Code.**

### When to Offer

If the brainstorm involves visual decisions (UI layouts, design choices, mockups), ask the user:

> "This involves some visual decisions. Would you like me to show mockups in a browser window? (Requires opening a local URL)"

Only proceed with visual companion if they agree. Otherwise, describe options in text.

### Starting the Visual Companion

```bash
# Start server (outputs JSON with URL)
${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/start-server.sh

# Output looks like: {"type":"server-started","port":52341,"url":"http://localhost:52341"}
```

Tell the user to open the URL in their browser.

### Showing Content

Write complete HTML to `/tmp/brainstorm/screen.html`. The browser auto-refreshes.

Use the frame template structure from `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/frame-template.html`:
- Keep the header and feedback-footer intact
- Replace `#claude-content` with your content
- Use the CSS helper classes (`.options`, `.cards`, `.mockup`, `.split`, `.pros-cons`)

See `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/CLAUDE-INSTRUCTIONS.md` for detailed examples.

### Waiting for User Feedback

Run the watcher as a background bash command:

```bash
${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/wait-for-event.sh /tmp/brainstorm/.server.log
```

When the user clicks Send in the browser, the watcher exits and you receive their feedback as JSON:
```json
{"choice": "a", "feedback": "I like this but make the header smaller"}
```

### The Loop

1. Write screen HTML
2. Start watcher (background bash)
3. Watcher completes when user sends feedback
4. Read feedback, respond with new screen
5. Repeat until done

### Cleaning Up

When the visual brainstorming session is complete:

```bash
${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/stop-server.sh
```

### Tips

- **Keep mockups simple** - Focus on layout and structure, not pixel-perfect design
- **Limit choices** - 2-4 options is ideal
- **Regenerate fully** - Write complete HTML each turn; the screen is stateless
- **Terminal is primary** - The browser shows things; conversation happens in terminal

Commit message:

fix: session isolation and blocking wait for visual companion
- Each session gets unique temp directory (/tmp/brainstorm-{pid}-{timestamp})
- Server outputs screen_dir and screen_file in startup JSON
- stop-server.sh takes screen_dir arg and cleans up session directory
- Document blocking TaskOutput pattern: 10-min timeouts, retry up to 3x,
  then prompt user "let me know when you want to continue"

skills/brainstorming/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: brainstorming
description: "You MUST use this before any creative work - creating features, building components, adding functionality, or modifying behavior. Explores user intent, requirements and design before implementation."
---

# Brainstorming Ideas Into Designs

## Overview

Help turn ideas into fully formed designs and specs through natural collaborative dialogue.

Start by understanding the current project context, then ask questions one at a time to refine the idea. Once you understand what you're building, present the design in small sections (200-300 words), checking after each section whether it looks right so far.

## The Process

**Understanding the idea:**
- Check out the current project state first (files, docs, recent commits)
- Ask questions one at a time to refine the idea
- Prefer multiple choice questions when possible, but open-ended is fine too
- Only one question per message - if a topic needs more exploration, break it into multiple questions
- Focus on understanding: purpose, constraints, success criteria

**Exploring approaches:**
- Propose 2-3 different approaches with trade-offs
- Present options conversationally with your recommendation and reasoning
- Lead with your recommended option and explain why

**Presenting the design:**
- Once you believe you understand what you're building, present the design
- Break it into sections of 200-300 words
- Ask after each section whether it looks right so far
- Cover: architecture, components, data flow, error handling, testing
- Be ready to go back and clarify if something doesn't make sense

## After the Design

**Documentation:**
- Write the validated design to `docs/plans/YYYY-MM-DD-<topic>-design.md`
- Use elements-of-style:writing-clearly-and-concisely skill if available
- Commit the design document to git

**Implementation (if continuing):**
- Ask: "Ready to set up for implementation?"
- Use superpowers:using-git-worktrees to create isolated workspace
- Use superpowers:writing-plans to create detailed implementation plan

## Key Principles

- **One question at a time** - Don't overwhelm with multiple questions
- **Multiple choice preferred** - Easier to answer than open-ended when possible
- **YAGNI ruthlessly** - Remove unnecessary features from all designs
- **Explore alternatives** - Always propose 2-3 approaches before settling
- **Incremental validation** - Present design in sections, validate each
- **Be flexible** - Go back and clarify when something doesn't make sense

## Visual Companion (Claude Code Only)

When brainstorming involves visual elements - UI mockups, layouts, design comparisons - you can use a browser-based visual companion instead of ASCII art. **This only works in Claude Code.**

### When to Offer

If the brainstorm involves visual decisions (UI layouts, design choices, mockups), ask the user:

> "This involves some visual decisions. Would you like me to show mockups in a browser window? (Requires opening a local URL)"

Only proceed with visual companion if they agree. Otherwise, describe options in text.

### Starting the Visual Companion

```bash
# Start server (creates unique session directory)
${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/start-server.sh

# Output looks like:
# {"type":"server-started","port":52341,"url":"http://localhost:52341",
#  "screen_dir":"/tmp/brainstorm-12345-1234567890",
#  "screen_file":"/tmp/brainstorm-12345-1234567890/screen.html"}
```

**Save the `screen_dir` and `screen_file` paths from the response** - you'll need them throughout the session.

Tell the user to open the URL in their browser.

### Showing Content

Write complete HTML to the session's `screen_file` path. The browser auto-refreshes.

Use the frame template structure from `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/frame-template.html`:
- Keep the header and feedback-footer intact
- Replace `#claude-content` with your content
- Use the CSS helper classes (`.options`, `.cards`, `.mockup`, `.split`, `.pros-cons`)

See `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/CLAUDE-INSTRUCTIONS.md` for detailed examples.

### Waiting for User Feedback

Start the watcher as a background bash command, then use TaskOutput with block=true to wait:

```bash
# 1. Start watcher in background
${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/wait-for-event.sh $SCREEN_DIR/.server.log

# 2. Call TaskOutput(task_id, block=true, timeout=600000) to wait
# 3. If timeout, call TaskOutput again (watcher is still running)
# 4. After 3 timeouts (30 min), say "Let me know when you want to continue" and stop looping
```

When the user clicks Send in the browser, the watcher exits and TaskOutput returns with feedback:
```json
{"choice": "a", "feedback": "I like this but make the header smaller"}
```

### The Loop

1. Write screen HTML to `screen_file`
2. Start watcher (background bash)
3. Call TaskOutput(task_id, block=true) to wait
4. TaskOutput returns with feedback
5. Respond with new screen
6. Repeat until done

### Cleaning Up

When the visual brainstorming session is complete, pass the screen_dir to stop:

```bash
${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/lib/brainstorm-server/stop-server.sh $SCREEN_DIR
```

### Tips

- **Keep mockups simple** - Focus on layout and structure, not pixel-perfect design
- **Limit choices** - 2-4 options is ideal
- **Regenerate fully** - Write complete HTML each turn; the screen is stateless
- **Terminal is primary** - The browser shows things; conversation happens in terminal
